I’d like to invite you to contribute a chapter to Doing Digital Humanities:
Practice, Training and Research, expected to be published in early 2016 by
Routledge, edited by Richard J. Lane, Raymond Siemens, and Constance Crompton.

The volume will draw on the expertise of instructors at, and friends of, the
Digital Humanities Summer Institute (DHSI) – representing an exciting
opportunity to share the way we work together at the DHSI with a broader
audience.  The development of digital humanities skills is, as we know, a
continual and iterative process, not only because of the need to reach
professional levels of technical competence (and to continually “refresh” such
competency), but also because of the development of new research questions and
goals that emerge out of our research and via the creation of innovative
digital tools.  New approaches to the digital humanities in turn seem to
generate new training requirements, and so we are keen to offer those who use
this volume the opportunity to work with the tools, techniques, and theoretical
engagements that have emerged as central to the DHSI, between DHSI gatherings.

Would you be interested in contributing a book length chapter drawing on your
experience to this volume, on the topic of humanities programming?  Routledge
has been enthusiastic in their endorsement of the volume, and have offered both
server space and programmer support, if you are interested in contributing to
the volume and would like to offer readers additional digital material.

The chief audience for this volume is pretty much like what we would find at
DHSI -- scholars, students, and practitioners (which will extend to managers,
funders, publishers, developers, consultants, and members of the public)
interested in creating digital humanities scholarship and looking for training,
advice, and guidance on the methodologies, software, hardware, systems, and
project management skills, they need to successfully undertake research
projects.  The basic model for the chapters is what one might find in primers
and companions, with possibility of including DHSI course and other workshop
materials (for those who might wish).

Our timeline and process are as below:

- 20 December 2014: Responses to invitations received by editors

- 9 January 2015:  Authors submit 250 word chapter abstracts and 100 word
  biographical statements to the editors

- 1 June 2015: Authors submit chapter drafts (of no more than five thousand
  words inclusive; MLA in-text citations with additional endnotes if required)
to the editors

- 1 September 2015: Editors provide comments on the chapters, and make all
  chapter drafts available for all collection authors to peruse (for purposes
of internal citation and cross-referencing)

- 1 November 2015: Authors submit final drafts of chapters to the editors,
  which are then forwarded to the press.

On behalf of all the editors, let me say how much we hope you will join us in
this endeavour.  We look forward to your reply.
